>> Woodruff: THE WAR OF WORDS ON
THE KOREAN PENINSULA RATCHETED
UP TODAY, AS SOUTH KOREA'S
PRESIDENT SAID HER NATION WOULD
RESPOND STRONGLY IF NORTH KOREA
STRIKES.
GOOD EVENING.
I'M JUDY WOODRUFF.
>> Warner: AND I'M MARGARET
WARNER.
ON THE NEWSHOUR TONIGHT, WE
ASSESS THE LATEST RHETORIC.
IS IT JUST BRINKMANSHIP, OR DOES
IT REFLECT THE COMMUNIST STATE'S
ABILITY TO MOUNT AN ATTACK?
>> Woodruff: THEN, WE UPDATE TWO
SHOOTINGS.
TEXAS RANGERS HUNT FOR THE
KILLER OF A DISTRICT ATTORNEY
AND HIS WIFE, AND PROSECUTORS IN
COLORADO SEEK THE DEATH PENALTY
FOR THE GUNMAN IN THE MOVIE
THEATER MASSACRE.
>> Warner: FROM INDIA, FRED DE
SAM LAZARO REPORTS ON EFFORTS TO
ACKLTE VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN,
AFTER THE GANG RAPE AND MURDER
OF A MEDICAL STUDENT LAST YEAR.
>> ANY WOMAN IS SUBJECT TO SOME
KIND OF PUNISHMENT.
THE MEN DON'T SEE IT AS
HARASSMENT.
>> Woodruff: HARI SREENIVASAN
EXAMINES THE CASE FOR AND
AGAINST USING PUBLIC MONEY TO
HELP PAY FOR PRIVATE SCHOOLS.
PLUS, ON THE "DAILY DOWNLOAD,"
THE CONVERSATION ABOUT SAME SEX
MARRIAGE TURNS FACEBOOK RED.
>> IT RAISES THE VISIBILITY, I
THINK, IN A WAY THAT WE HAVEN'T
SEEN AND PROBABLY ENERGIZES
THOSE WHO FEEL LIKE THIS IS THE
MOMENT THAT GAY MARRIAGE IS
FINALLY GETTING CULTURAL
ACCEPTANCE.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S ALL AHEAD ON
>> Woodruff: U.S. OFFICIALS SAID
TODAY THAT A NAVY GUIDED-MISSILE
DESTROYER CAPABLE OF SHOOTING
DOWN BALLISTIC MISSILES HAS BEEN
POSITIONED SLIGHTLY CLOSER TO
THE KOREAN PENINSULA.
THIS COMES IN THE WAKE OF AN
ESCALATING VERBAL EXCHANGE
BETWEEN NORTH AND SOUTH KOREA,
AND A DAY AFTER TOP NORTH KOREAN
OFFICIALS SAID BUILDING NUCLEAR
CAPABILITIES WAS ONE OF ITS TOP
PRIORITIES.
IN SEOUL TODAY, NORTH KOREAN
PRESIDENT ISSUED A STERN
WARNING.
DURING A MEETING WITH THE
COUNTRY'S DEFENSE OFFICIALS.
>> 'S ANY PROVOCATION AGAINST
SOUTH KOREA AND ITS PEOPLE THERE
SHOULD BE STRONG RESPONSE
WITHOUT ANY POLITICAL
CONSIDERATION.
>> Warner: OVER THE WEEKEND
NORTH KOREA SAID IT HAD ENTERED
A STATE OF WAR WITH SOUTH KOREA.
THE LATEST THREAT FROM PYONGYANG
SINCE THE UNITED NATIONS SLAPPED
SANCTIONS ON THE COUNTRY'S
NUCLEAR PROGRAM LAST MONTH.
NORTH KOREA SAID THE MOST RECENT
MOVE IS IN RESPONSE TO ONGOING
JOINT MILITARY EXERCISES BETWEEN
THE SOUTH AND THE UNITE STATES.
THE U.S. ANNOUNCED IT HAS SENT
F22 STEALTH FIGHTER JETS TO THE
REGION AS PART OF THE ANNUAL WAR
GAMES.
TODAYNOEAN STATE
TELEVISION ALSO RELEASED NEW
VIDEO OF MILITARY TRAINING
EXERCISES.
IT SHOWED SOLDIERS AT A FIRING
RANGE, SHOOTING AT TARGETS WITH
THE LETTERS USA ON THEM.
IN WASHINGTON WHITE HOUSE PRESS
SECRETARY JAY CARNEY DOWNPLAYED
THE STATEMENTS BY THE NORTH.
>> DESPITE THE HARSHHETO RRIC
WE'RE HEARING FROM PYONGYANG, WE
ARE NOT SEEING CHANGES TO THE
NORTH KOREAN MILITARY POSTURE
SUCH AS LARGE-SCALE
MOBILIZATIONS AND POSITIONING OF
FORCES.
NOW WE TAKE THIS SERIOUSLY.
I SAID THAT IN THE PAST.
AND WE ARE VIGILANT AND WE ARE
MONITORING THE KOREAN SITUATION
VERY DILIGENTLY.
>> Woodruff: YESTERDAY NORTH
KOREAN LEADER MET WITH MEMBERS
OF THE COUNTRY'S LABOR PARTY AND
SAID BUILDING NUCLEAR
CAPABILITIES AND THE ECONOMY
WERE TOP PRIORITIES.
TODAY DURING A PARLIAMENTARY
SESSION, THE COUNTRY WAS
APPOINTED A NEW PREMIERE, A
POSITION HE HELD PREVIOUSLY FROM
2003 TO 2007.
THE MOVE IS SEEN AS ONE THAT MAY
BE TIED TO KIM'S CALL FOR
ECONOMIC IMPROVEMENTS.
THE UNITED NATIONS SAYS TWO
THIRDS OF NORTH KOREANS SUFFER
FROM INADEQUATE FOOD.
TWO FORMER KOREA INTELLIGENCE
ANALYSTS WEIGH IN.
ROBERT CARLIN HAD A 31-YEAR
CAREER AT THE C.I.A. AND STATE
DEPARTMENT.
HE WAS INVOLVED IN U.S.-NORTH
KOREA NEGOTIATIONS, AND TRAVELED
TO NORTH KOREA 25 TIMES.
HE'S NOW A VISITING FELLOW AT
STANFORD UNIVERSITY.
AND BRUCE KLINGNER SPENT 20
YEARS AT THE C.I.A., WHERE HE
SERVED AS THE DEPUTY CHIEF FOR
KOREA.
HE'S NOW A SENIOR RESEARCH
FELLOW AT THE HERITAGE
FOUNDATION.
GENTLEMEN, WELCOME TO THE
NEWSHOUR.
BRUCE KLINGNER, TO YOU FIRST.
HOW WOULD YOU DESCRIBE THE STATE
OF RELATIONS RIGHT NOW BETWEEN
THE NORTH AND THE SOUTH AND THE
U.S.?
>> THEY'RE VERY STRAINED.
WE'VE HAD FIVE YEARS OF VERY
STRAINED RELATIONS UNDER THE
PREVIOUS PRESIDENT AS HE DID NOT
CONTINUE THE UNCONDITIONAL
PROVISION OF BENEFITS TO NORTH
KOREA THAT HIS TWO PREDECESSORS
HAD DONE.
NORTH KOREA INCREASED THE
RHETORIC, INCREASED THE THREATS
DURING HIS ADMINISTRATION WE'VE
SEEN NO CHANGE IN THE THREAT
LEVEL SINCE THE NEW NORTH KOREAN
LEADER CAME AND THE NEW SOUTH
KOREAN PRESIDENT.
>> Woodruff: ROBERT CARLIN, HAVE
STRAINED?
>> I THINK THE RHETORIC IS AT A
HIGH LEVEL.
I WOULD HOPE THAT THE EVENTS
OVER THE PAST COUPLE OF DAYS IN
NORTH KOREA WOULD PROVIDE AN
OPPORTUNITY FOR US TO LOWER THE
TEMPERATURE A LITTLE BIT.
WE HAD SOME PRETTY IMPORTANT
DEVELOPMENTS IN TERMS OF POLICY
AND PERSONNEL FROM THE NORTH
KOREANS OVER THE LAST TWO DAYS.
I THINK WE SHOULD STEP BACK.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ARE YOU
REFERRING TO?
>> I'M REFERRING TO THE LOWER
PROFILE THAT THE MILITARY NOW
HAS IN THE TOP-LEVEL LEADERSHIP
IN NORTH KOREA.
I'M REFERRING TO SOMETHING THAT
THE NORTH KOREANS... THEY DON'T
USE THIS TERM, BUT I WILL.
IT'S THE NUCLEAR DIVIDENDS.
IT'S THE ABILITY... NOW THAT
THEY HAVE NUCLEAR WEAPONS THEY
SAY TO DIVERT MORE MONEY FOR
THEIR CIVILIAN ECONOMY.
AND THE QUESTION IS, IS THERE AN
OPENING THERE?
THAT PROVIDES SOME LLTS OF
STABILITY IN THAT SITUATION THAT
WE CAN USE.
>> Woodruff: YOU MEAN BECAUSE
THEY FEEL MORE SECURE ABOUT
THEIR NUCLEAR CAPABILITY, THEY
THEN HAVE THE SPACE TO EXPAND IN
THE ECONOMIC AREA.
>> YES.
Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THAT
MR. KLINGNER, DOES THAT MAKE
SENSE?
>> WE CAN ALL BE HOPEFUL.
WE'VE BEEN HOPING FOR 20 YEARS
THAT NORTH KOREA WILL IMPLEMENT
ECONOMIC REFORM.
I REMEMBER 20 YEARS AGO STETA
DEPARTMENT PREDICTED KIM JONG IL
WAS A BOLD ECONOMIC REFORMER AND
WE WERE ON THE CUSS-OF
WIDESPREAD ECONOMIC REFORM.
THAT HASN'T HAPPENED.
IT HASN'T HAPPENED UNDER THE NEW
LEADER.
THE IMPORTANT NEW YEAR'S DAY
EDITORIAL AND THE SPEECH BY HIM
REALLY WAS JUST A CONTINUATION
OF EXHORTATIONS FOR A PLANNED
ECONOMY TO BUILD A SOCIALIST
PARADISE.
WE HAVEN'T SEEN INDICATIONS YET
OF ECONOMIC REFORM.
BUT MORE IMPORTANTLY WE HAVE
SEEN NO INDICATIONS OF POLITICAL
CHANGE OR MODERATION OF THEIR
FOREIGN POLICY.
>> Woodruff: DO YOU SEE
CONCRETE, ROBERT CAR CAR LYNNE,
EXAMPLES OF WHERE THE NORTH MAY
BE HEADING IN A REFORMIST
DIRECTION WITH REGARD TO THEIR
ECONOMY OR THEIR POLITICS?
>> I HATE TO USE THE WORD REFORM
BECAUSE IT STIRS UP ALL SORTS OF
IMPRESSIONS, DIFFERENT
IMPRESSIONS IN PEOPLE'S MINDS.
THE QUESTION IS THERE GOING TO
BE CHANGE IN THEIR ECONOMIC
POLICIES?
KIM CONGRESS EWEN INDICATED A
YEAR AGO THAT HE WAS GOING TO
BEGIN TOWN THAT PATH.
HE USED THE TERM THEY WEREN'T
GOING TO HAVE TO TIGHTEN THEIR
BELTS ANYMORE.
I THINK HE'S CONTINUED THAT IN
HIS LATEST POLICY STATEMENTS,
AND THE NEW PRIME MINISTER THAT
HE APPOINTED STRONGLY SUGGESTS
THAT THEY'RE GOING TO PUSH AHEAD
WITH THAT POLICY.
IT'S NOT GOING TO UNFOLD IN
ISOLATION, HOWEVER.
IT'S GOING TO DEPEND ON HOW THE
OUTSIDE WORLD REACTS TO IT.
>> Woodruff: DISAPPOINT... THIS
APPOINTMENT OF THE NEW PREMIERE
WHO WAS THE PREMIERE BEFORE,
WHAT DO YOU SEE OF SIGNIFICANCE
THERE?
>> I THINK WE NEED TO LOOK AT
NORTH KOREAN ACTIONS.
WE'VE HAD TIMES WHERE WE THOUGHT
AN OFFICIAL WAS A REFORMER IN
THE PAST.
IT DIDN'T LEAD TO CHANGE IN
THEIR ECONOMIC POLICY.
THEY'VE HAD SORT OF MINOR STEPS
FORWARD AND THEN THEY WERE
TRACKED FROM... THEY RETRACT
FROM THAT.
WE CAN DEBATE AS WE HAVE FOR 20
YEARS WHETHER NORTH KOREA WILL
IMPLEMENT REFORM.
WE HAVE TO LOOK IMPORTANT THAT
ANOTHER COUNTRY IMPLEMENTED
ECONOMIC REFORM, CHINA.
THAT DIDN'T LEAD TO THE
PREDICTED POLITICAL REFORMS NOR
A MODERATION IN THEIR FOREIGN
SECURITY POLICY.
SO FAR I MEAN WE HAVE THE
ANNOUNCEMENT OF THIS PREMIERE
AND YET IN THE SAME MEETING THEY
AFFIRM THAT THEY WILL NEVER GIVE
UP THEIR NUCLEAR WEAPONS.
THEY'RE NOT NEGOTIABLE.
THEY CONTINUE THE THREATS
AGAINST SOUTH KOREA AND THE
UNITED STATES.
>> Woodruff: ROBERT CAR LYNNE,
IF YOU SEE THE POSSIBILITY OF AN
OPENING OR A MODERATION SOMEHOW,
WHY THEN ALL THIS BELLICOSE
RHETORIC FROM THE NORTH?
THE BELLICOSE RHETORIC IS
LARGELY PROPAGANDA.
AND PROPAGANDA IS, BY ITS
NATURE, ROUGH, TOUGH, BELLICOSE,
MEAN, UGLY.
WE SHOULDN'T GET CARRIED AWAY,
PAYING TOO MUCH ATTENTION TO THE
PROPAGANDA.
I MEAN BRUCE JUST MADE THE
POINT, WE HAVE TO LOOK AT WHAT
THEY DO NOT JUST WHAT THEY SAY.
AND SO IT'S SORT OF THE CLOCK
STARTS NOW.
THE NEW PREMIERE COMES INTO
OFFICE.
WHAT ARE THE POLICIES THAT
THEY'RE GOING TO PICK UP ON?
WHAT ARE THE INTERACTIONS WITH
THE CHINESE GOING TO BE FROM NOW
ON?
WHAT ARE THE NEW PROPOSALS THAT
ARE GOING TO COME UP WITH
TOWARDS SOUTH KOREA?
I SUSPECT THERE WILL BE SOME.
>> Woodruff: MEANTIME, BRUCE
KLINGNER, THE U.S. PUBLICIZING
THE FACT THAT THERE ARE THESE
JOINT MILITARY EXERCISES WITH
THE SOUTH, THE F22s, THEY'RE
POSITIONING THIS... I GUESS IT'S
A... WHAT IS IT?
A C-BASED RADAR PLATFORM CLOSER
TO THE NORTH.
GUIDED MISSILE DESTROYER THAT WE
MENTIONED EARLIER.
IF THE SITUATION... IF THE U.S.
THINKS WHAT THE NORTH IS DOING
IS WHAT IT'S ALWAYS... WHAT IT'S
DONE BEFORE AS WE HEARD THE
WHITE HOUSE SAY TODAY, WHY ARE
THE AMERICANS DOING THIS?
>> REALLY WE'RE SENDING A SIGNAL
TO BOTH KOREAS.
WE'RE SENDING A SIGNAL TO NORTH
KOREA THAT WE WILL DEFEND OUR
SOUTH KOREAN ALLY.
WE HAVE THE CAPABILITY TO DO SO
AND WE HAVE THE RESOLVE TO DO
SO.
WE'RE ALSO SENDING THE SAME
MESSAGE TO SEOUL WHICH HAS BEGUN
THE QUESTION U.S. CAPABLES AND
RESOLVE PARTICULARLY AFTER THE
SEQUESTRATION CUTS AND THE
PREVIOUS CUTS TO THE DEFENSE
BUDGET.
DEPUTY SECRETARY OF DEFENSE
ASHTON CARTER WAS IN THE AREA TO
TRY TO REASSURE OUR ALLIES.
BUT THE CUTS DO IMPACT OUR
CAPABILITIES.
>> Woodruff: AND DOES SENDING
THOSE SETS OF REASSURING SIGNALS
MAKE SENSE AT THIS POINT?
>> WE'RE RIGHT IN THE MIDDLE OF
A PRETTY BAD SITUATION.
AND IF OUR ALLIES THINK AFTER
ALL OF THESE YEARS THEY NEED
MORE REASSURANCE FROM US, THEN
BY ALL MEANS WE SHOULD GIVE IT
TO THEM.
BUT WE HAVE TO BE CAREFUL NOT TO
BE PROVOCATIVE ABOUT IT TOWARDS
THE NORTH KOREANS.
>> Woodruff: LAST QUESTION TO
BOTH OF YOU.
WHAT IS THE NORTH CAPABLE OF
DOING?
>> THEY'RE CAPABLE OF UNLEASHING
INCREDIBLE DESTRUCTION ON SOUTH
KOREA.
>> Woodruff: THE REGION?
TRUE.
THEY HAVE CONVENTIONAL FORCES.
THEY'VE CERTAINLY USED THOSE IN
TWO ACTS OF WAR IN 2010.
THEY'VE CONDUCTED ACTS OF
TERROR.
THEY HAVE A GROWING MISSILE
CAPABILITY, A GROWING NUCLEAR
CAPABILITY.
CERTAINLY THE OBAMA
ADMINISTRATION HAS TAKEN IT
SERIOUSLY BECAUSE THEY REVERSED
THEIR PREVIOUS POLICY TO CUT
MISSILE DEFENSE INTERPRET
SEPTEMBERORS IN ALASKA.
THEY'VE PUT THEM BACK INTO THE
BUDGET.
>> Woodruff: SO FAR FROM THE
NORTH IT'S JUST TALK AND THE
EXERCISE...
>> IT'S TALK UNTIL IT HAPPENS.
WE THOUGHT IT WAS JUST TALK
BEFORE THEY SANK A SOUTH KOREAN
SHIP IN SOUTH KOREAN WATERS.
WE THOUGHT IT WAS JUST TALK
UNTIL THEY SHELLED A CIVILIAN
ISLAND.
IT'S ALWAYS TRYING TO DISCERN
THE BLUSTER FROM THE THREATS.
THAT'S VERY DIFFICULT WITH NORTH
KOREA.
>> Woodruff: WE WILL LEAVE IT
THERE.
BRUCE KLINGNER, RORTBE CARLIN,
WE THANK YOU BOTH.
>> Warner: STILL TO COME ON THE
NEWSHOUR, THE MANHUNT FOR A
KILLER IN TEXAS; THE PUSH FOR
THE DEATH PENALTY IN COLORADO;
THE CAMPAIGN AGAINST DOMESTIC
VIOLENCE IN INDIA; THE STATE OF
THE VOUCHER MOVEMENT; AND
FACEBOOK TURNING RED.
BUT FIRST, THOTHEE R NEWS OF THE
DAY, HERE'S HARI SREENIVASAN.
>> Sreenivasan: A SOUTHWEST
VIRGINIA INTERSTATE REOPENED
TOD AFAYTER A MASSIVE PILEUP
KILLED THREE PEOPLE AND INJURED
DOZENS MORE.
YESTERDAY POLICE OFFICIALS SAID
DENSE FOG TRIGGERED 17 SEPARATE
CRASHES ALONG I-77 YESTERDAY,
ALL WITHIN THE SPAN OF A MILE.
THE CHAIN REACTION INVOLVED 95
VEHICLES IN A NOTORIOUSLY FOGGY
MOUNTAINOUS AREA NEAR THE NORTH
CAROLINA BORDER.
THE TOP COURT IN INDIA REJECTED
A PATENT APPLICATION FROM A
SWISS DRUG MAKER FOR A MAJOR
CANCER DRUG.
THE RULING MEANS INDIAN MAKERS
OF GENERIC DRUGS CAN KEEP ON
MAKING COPYCAT VERSIONS OF THE
NOVARTIS DRUG IN QUESTION,
GLEEVEC.
IT'S BEEN HIGHLY EFFECTIVE IN
TREATING SOME FORMS OF LEUKEMIA.
THE DECISION SETS A BENCHMARK
FOR INTELLECTUAL PROPERTY CASES
IN INDIA.
NOVARTIS RESNDEDPO TO TODAY'S
DECISION BY SAYING IT WILL NOT
INVEST IN DRUG RESEARCH THERE.
CALM RETURNED TO THE STREETS OF
KISUMU, KENYA, TODAY AFTER A
WEEKEND OF HEAVY RIOTING.
THE CITY IS HOME TO RAILA
ODINGA, WHO NARROWLY LOST THE
PRESIDENTIAL RACE TO UHURU
KENYATTA.
ON SATURDAY, THE SUPREME COURT
CONFIRMED KENYATTA WAS THE
WINNER OF THE MARCH 4 ELECTION.
THAT ANNOUNCEMENT ANGERED ODINGA
SUPPORTERS, WHO SET TIRES ON
FIRE AND BLOCKED MAJOR ROADS.
POLICE RESPONDED BY FIRING TEAR
GAS AT THE RIOTERS.
KENYATTA IS EXPECTED TO BE SWORN
IN ON APRIL 9.
STOCKS EDGED LOWER ON WALL
STREET TODAY IN A LIGHT DAY OF
TRADING.
THE DOW JONES INDUSTRIAL AVERAGE
LOST MORE THAN FIVE POINTS TO
CLOSE ABOVE 14,572.
THE NASDAQ FELL 28 POINTS TO
CLOSE AT 3,239.
THOSE ARE SOME OF THE DAY'S
MAJOR STORIES.
NOW, BACK TO MARGARET.
>> Warner: AND TO UPDATES ON TWO
SHOOTINGS, IN TEXAS, AND IN
COLORADO.
GUARDS WITH SEMIAUTOMATIC
WEAPONS PATROLLED TEXAS
COURTHOUSES TODAY, AFTER KAUFMAN
COUNTY DISTRICT ATTORNEY MIKE
McLELLAND AND HIS WIFE, CYNTHIA,
WERE MURDERED SATURDAY NIGHT IN
THEIR OWN HOME.
IT IS THE SECOND SHOOTING OF A
PROSECUTOR IN THE SMALL TEXAS
TOWN THIS YEAR, COMING JUST TWO
MONTHS AFTER ASSISTANT DISTRICT
ATTORNEY MARK HASSE WAS SHOT
DEAD OUTSIDE THE LOCAL
COURTHOUSE ON HIS WAY TO WORK.
I'M JOINED BY BILL ZEEBLE.
HE'S COVERING THE STORY FOR KERA
PUBLIC RADIO IN NORTH TEXAS.
BILL, WELCOME TO THE PROGRAM.
TELL US WHAT YOU CAN ABOUT THE
INVESTIGATION.
WHAT TRAIL OF EVENTS, WHAT
POSSIBLE LINKS ARE AUTHORITIES
LOOKING AT AND TRYING TO GET TO
THE BOTTOM OF WHO KILLED
MCLELLAND AND HIS WIFE?
>> GOOD TO BE HERE.
AUTHORITIES ARE LOOKING AT GANGS
LIKE THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD,
POSSIBLY OTHER GANGS BECAUSE
THERE SEEMS TO BE A TIE-IN TO
TSEHE DEATHS.
MARK HASSE, AS YOU SAID, JANUARY
31.
THEN ALMOST TWO MONTHS LATER,
DISTRICT ATTORNEY MCLELLAND AND
HIS WIFE AT HOME.
SO THEY'RE LOOKING AT ANYBODY
WHO WOULD HAVE A REASON TO KILL
THESE LAW ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
VENGEANCE MIGHT BE ONE.
YOU WILL FIND VENGEFUL PRISONERS
WHO MIGHT WANT TO GET THESE
GUYS.
WITHIN THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD
THERE WAS A MESSAGE, AN EMAIL
SENT OUT FROM THE U.S. MARSHALS
THAT SAID AFTER AN INDICTMENT
LAST FALL AGAINST MEMBERS OF THE
ARYAN BROTHERHOOD THAT IN
DECEMBER THERE WAS A WARNING
THAT SAID THEY MIGHT BE OUT TO
ATTACK AND PUNISH LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS.
FROM ARYAN BROTHERHOOD ANYWAY
PUNISHMENT COULD BE MEAN
VIOLENCE AND DEATH.
SO THAT'S A POSSIBLE LINK.
IT'S NOT PROVEN YET.
>> Warner: AND SO HAD ASSISTANT
DISTRICT ATTORNEY MARK HASSE OR
DISTRICT ATTORNEY MCLELLAND BEEN
INVOLVED IN ANYWAY IN THE
FURTHERANCE OF THESE INDICTMENTS
FROM LAST FALL?
>> WELL, THE OFFICE OF THE
DISTRICT ATTORNEY IN KAUFMAN
COUNTY WAS ONE OF A BROAD RANGE
OF AFFILIATES INVOLVED WITH THE
RACKETEERING INDICTMENT.
BUT JUST ONE OF MANY.
MR. HASSE WASN'T DIRECTLY
INVOLVED IN PROSECUTIONS
REGARDING MEMBERS OF THE ARYAN
BROTHERHOOD.
THAT WAS ACCORDING TO MIKE LEND
WHEN HE GAVE A PRESS CONFERENCE
JANUARY 31.
AND THEN THERE WAS NO DIRECT
LINK FROM THE SHERIFF WHO TALKED
TO REPORTERS THE OTHER DAY,
TYING MR. MCLELLAND TO THE ARYAN
BROTHERHOOD DIRECT LINK, BUT
MIKE MCLELLAND HAD SAID THAT
MEMBERS LIVED IN AND WERE
INVOLVED IN HIS COMMUNITY IN
KAUFMAN COUNTY.
SO HE KNOWS THEY EXISTED.
>> Warner: NOW WHAT IS EXACTLY
THE ARYAN BROTHERHOOD OF TEXAS?
WHAT SORTS OF THINGS ARE THEY
ACCUSED OF?
>> WELL, THEY'RE LARGELY
PRISON-BASED.
THEY DATE BACK TO CALIFORNIA IN
TH 1960s SO THEY'VE BEEN
AROUND ALMOST 50 YEARS.
IT'S A WHITE SUPREMACIST GROUP
WITH A MILITARY-STYLE SET-UP.
WITH GENERALS AND OTHER LEADERS.
YOU'RE SUPPOSED TO REPORT TO
THEM.
AND YOU'RE NOT SUPPOSED TO BREAK
ANY BOND OF LOYALTY AT THE RISK
OF SEVERE PUNISHMENT OR DEATH.
AND THEY APPARENTLY MAKE MONEY
FROM ILLEGAL DRUGS AND ROBBERY
AND THIEFRY AND ALL SORTS OF
CRIMINAL ACTIVITY.
>> Warner: AND I UNDERSTAND THAT
ALSO INVESTIGATORS ARE LOOKING
AT THE KILLING OF, SPEAKING OF
PRISONS, PRISON CHIEF IN
COLORADO JUST TWO WEEKS AGO.
WHAT COULD BE THE LINK THERE?
>> WELL, THE LINK IS THE METHOD.
TOM CLEMENTS WHO IS THE CHIEF OF
THE PRISON SYSTEM IN COLORADO
WAS SHOT AT, AT HIS FRONT DOOR.
A KNOCK ON THE DOOR.
OPENED IT.
HE WAS SHOT BY A FORMER PRISON
INMATE FROM THE COLORADO PRISON.
THEN THE OTHER DAY, YOU KNOW,
THE CLEMENTS FAMILY OR RATHER
THE MCLELLAND FAMILY WERE SHOT
IN HOME.
A KNOCK ON THE DOOR AND THEN
CYNTHIA MCLELLAND WAS SHOT.
THEN A LITTLE FURTHER IN THE
HOUSE, OFFICIALS REPORT THAT
THEY SHOT MIKE MCLELLAND.
SO A KNOCK ON THE DOOR AND THE
SHOOTINGS THEN OCCUR.
SO THAT'S THE COMMON LINK.
BUT THE OFFICIALS... LAW
ENFORCEMENT OFFICIALS HAVE NOT
BEEN ABLE TO CONNECT THE DOTS
DIRECTLY TO SAY BEYOND
SUPERFICIAL METHODS THAT THERE'S
A LINK.
>> Warner: BILL ZEEBLE IN
DALLAS, THANK YOU.
>> YOU'RE WELCOME.
>> Warner: AND TO OUR UPDATE ON
A SECOND SHOOTING.
IT INVOES ALV TRIAL FOR THE
SUSPECT IN LAST SUMMER'S
MASSACRE AT A MOVIE THEATER IN
AURORA, COLORADO.
DURING A COURT HEARING TODAY,
PROSECUTORS SAID THEY'LL SEEK
THE DEATH PENALTY FOR JAMES
HOLMES IN THE ATTACKS THAT
KILLED 12 PEOPLE AND INJURED 58
OTHERS.
THE JUDGE PUT OFF THE START OF
THE TRIAL BACK TO NEXT FEBRUARY.
CAROL McKINLEY IS A FREELANCE
CORRESPONDENT WHO HAS BEEN IN
THE COURTROOM.
I SPOKE WITH HER BETWEEN COURT
SESSIONS EARLIER TODAY.
CAROL McKINLEY, THANK YOU FOR
BEING WITH US.
TELL US ABOUT WHAT HAPPENED IN
COURT TODAY.
WHY DID THE PROSECUTOR SAY HE IS
GOING TO GO TO TRIAL AND SEEK A
DEATH PENALTY AND ESSENTIALLY
REJECTING THE OFFER BY THE
DEFENSE TO HAVE A PLEA AGREEMENT
HERE?
>> WELL, THIS IS A PRETTY
CONSERVATIVE PROSECUTOR.
HE JUST GOT VOTED IN IN NOVEMBER
KNOWING THAT THIS WAS GOING TO
BE HIS CASE.
HIS NAME IS GEORGE BROCKLER.
HE LOOKED OVER EVERY STATUTE.
HE MET WITH 60 VICTIMS AND
RELATIVES OF VICTIMS WHO DIED.
ONLY THE ONES WHO DIED.
ALSO HIS OFFICE REACHED OUT TO
800 OF THE PEOPLE WHO WERE IN
THEATER 9 THE NIGHT OF JULY 20.
FROM TALKING TO ALL THOSE
PEOPLE, HE SAID HE ASSESSED HIS
DECISION THAT JUSTICE IS DEATH.
HE FEELS LIKE IF ANYONE DESERVES
THE DEATH PENALTY, IT WOULD BE
JAMES HOLMES BECAUSE MOST PEOPLE
BELIEVE THAT JAMES HOLMES IS THE
PERSON WHO COMMITTED THIS ACT
THAT EARLY MORNING ON A FRIDAY.
>> Warner: DID HE SAY ANYTHING
ABOUT WHY HE DID NOT ENTERTAIN
THE DEFENSE'S OFFER TO PLEAD
GUILTY TO THIS CRIME IN RETURN
FOR LIFE IN PRISON WITHOUT
PAROLE?
>> WELL, HE BELIEVES THAT WHAT
THE DEFENSE WAS DOING WAS
POSTURING.
HE BELIEVES THAT THEY WERE JUST
TRYING TO STALL FOR TIME SO THAT
THEY CAN KEEP THEIR CLIENT ALIVE
BECAUSE BASICALLY THAT'S WHAT
THEY WANT.
THAT IS THEIR M.O., AND THAT'S
WHAT THEY'RE GOING TO DO IS
THROW AS MANY MOTIONS OUT THERE
AS THEY CAN TO KEEP JAMES HOLMES
FROM, YOU KNOW, BEING KILLED
BASICALLY BY THE GOVERNMENT.
AND WHAT BROCKLER SAID IS THAT
IF HE TAKES THE OFFER OF GUILTY
IN EXCHANGE FOR LIFE, THE DOOR
WOULD BE CLOSED.
BY GOING FOR THE DEATH PENALTY,
HE CAN CHANGE HIS MIND NOW IF HE
WANTS TO, SO HE FEELS LIKE HE
HAS MUCH MORE TO, YOU KNOW, TO
WORK WITH IF HE GOES FOR DEATH.
>> Warner: WHAT WAS THE REACTION
IN THE COURTROOM?
>> WELL, IN THE COURTROOM THERE
WERE QUITE A FEW VICTIMS'
FAMILIES AND PEOPLE WHO WERE
INJURED WHO WERE CRYING.
VERY UPSET.
MAYBE NOT BECAUSE THEY WERE SAD
FOR JAMES HOLMES, MAYBE BECAUSE
THEY WERE SAD FOR THEIR LOVED
ONE.
ONE WOMAN RAN DOWN THE HALL IN
TEARS.
THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO DEFIANTLY
LOOKED AT THE PRESS BECAUSE THEY
WERE TRYING TO SEND A MESSAGE,
"THIS IS WHAT I BELIEVE TOO."
IN FACT, ONE OF THE FRIENDS OF
ALEX SULLIVAN WHO DIED IN
THEATER 9 THAT NIGHT SAID, "I
WANT TO BE IN THE FRONT ROW IF
JAMES HOLMES IS EXECUTED I'M ALL
FOR THIS EVEN IF THERE'S PAIN
INVOLVED."
>> Warner: WHAT CAN YOU TELL US
OR WHAT DO YOU KNOW ABOUT WHAT
THE DEFENSE INTENDS TO DO NOW IN
TERMS OF IMLORNT, FOR INSTANCE,
TO FILE AN INSANITY DEFENSE?
>> THEY PROBABLY WILL.
THEY'LL PROBABLY CHANGE THEIR
PLEA FROM GUILTY AND THE DEAL
THAT THEY TRIED TO MAKE TO NOT
GUILTY BY REASON OF INSANITY.
THERE WILL BE MOTION AFTER
MOTION.
THEY HAVE HUNDREDS OF PAGES OF
DISCOVERY.
THERE WERE THOUSANDS OF
DETECTIVES AND POLICE OFFICERS
WHO WERE INVOLVED IN THIS.
THEY NEED TO TALK TO ALL OF
THEM.
THEY WANTED... THEM DIDN'T WANT
THIS TRIAL TO START UNTIL THE
FALL OF 2014.
NOW THE TRIAL IS GOING TO START
FEBRUARY 3 OF 2014.
SO A YEAR-AND-A-HALF FROM WHEN,
YOU KNOW, THE PEOPLE WERE
KILLED.
SO WE'RE LOOKING AT JUST A
LITTLE BIT OF LESS THAN A YEAR
FROM NOW.
BUT I THINK WHAT THEY'RE GOING
TO DO IS FILE EVERY MOTION THEY
CAN.
>> Warner: IN EVERY STATE...
EVERY STATE IS DIFFERENT IN
TERMS OF CAPITAL CRIMES.
IN COLORADO HOW MUCH HARDER IS
IT TO CONVICT SOMEONE AND GET
THE DEATH SENTENCE THAN SIMPLY
TO WIN A CONVICTION?
>> YOU KNOW, IT'S HARD TO SAY.
THE LAST TIME WE HAD ANYONE
EXECUTED IN THE STATE OF
COLORADO WAS IN 1997.
NOVEMBER, A GUY NAMED GARY
DAVIS.
WE JUST HAD A HUGE ISSUE IN OUR
STATE LEGISLATURE WHERE THE
DEMOCRATS BROUGHT FORWARD AN
IDEA TO ABOLISH THE DEATH
PENALTY.
KNOWING THAT JAMES HOLMES WAS
LIKELY GOING TO GO TO TRIAL
SOON, THAT IDEA WAS REPEALED.
SO WE STILL HAVE OUR DEATH
PENALTY BUT IT'S BEEN UP IN THE
AIR.
AT THIS TIME WE HAVE THREE
PEOPLE ON DEATH ROW.
ONE OF THOSE PEOPLE HAS BEEN ON
DEATH ROW FOR A COUPLE OF
DECADES.
SO IT TAKES A LONG TIME.
IT'S VERY HARD TO DO HERE.
>> Warner: FINALLY AN INSANITY
DEFENSE.
AGAIN, EVERY STATE IS A LITTLE
DIFFERENT IN TERMS OF WHAT THE
STANDARD IS.
WHAT DOES THE DEFENSE HAVE TO
DEMONSTRATE TO GET HIM DECLARED
NOT GUILTY BY REASON OF
INSANITY?
>> YOU KNOW, THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO SHOW THAT HE WAS
SPIRALING, THAT THEY'RE GOING TO
HAVE TO CALL WITNESSES WHO SAW
HIM IN SPIRAL WHICH COULD BE
PEOPLE HE WAS IN SCHOOL WITH.
MAYBE HIS PROFESSORS.
MAYBE HIS FAMILY.
AND THEY'RE GOING TO HAVE TO
SHOW HIS COMMUNICATIONS, THINGS
THAT WERE IN HIS COMPUTER.
WAS HE HOLED UP IN HIS APARTMENT
IN THE DARK BY HIMSELF AS HE
SPIRALED DOWN?
THEY'RE GOING TO NEED TO BRING
IN HIS PSYCHIATRIST.
THE ONE FROM THE UNIVERSITY OF
COLORADO LYNN FENTON WHO WE'VE
HEARD SO MUCH ABOUT.
THEY'RE ALSO GOING TO HAVE TO GO
DOWN TO THE STATE HOSPITAL AND
HAVE HIM DIAGNOSED.
THEY'VE SAID THEY'VE HINTED THAT
HE'S SCHIZOPHRENIC.
AND THE PROSECUTION SAYS, YEAH,
MAYBE HE'S MENTALLY ILL BUT HE
MEANT TO DO THIS AND HE PLANNED
IT.
HE KNEW WHAT HE WAS DOING.
>> Warner: AS THE JUDGE SAID
TODAY, THIS TRIAL IS GOING TO
LAST A VERY LONG TIME.
CAROL McKINLEY, THANK YOU VERY
MUCH.
>> THANKS.
>> Woodruff: NOW, AN AWAKENING
IN INDIA TO THE PROBLEM OF
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN.
SPECIAL CORRESPONDENT FRED DE
SAM LAZARO HAS A REPORT, PART OF
OUR AGENTS FOR CHANGE SERIES.
AND A WARNING: SOME SCENES IN
HIS STORY ARE DISTURBING.
Reporter: OUTRAGE AGAINST A
BARBARIC CRIME.
>> Sreenivasan: IT USED TO BE
SOCIALLY TABOO TO TALK ABOUT
RAPE OR SEXUAL ASSAULT IN INDIA.
NOW IT'S IN THE NEWS ALMOST
DAILY.
>> PEOPLE REALLY, REALLY ARE
VERY ANGRY.
>> Sreenivasan: DR. RANJANA
KUMARI HEADS THE DELHI-BASED
CENTER FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH,
WHICH ADVOCATES ON A NUMBER OF
WOMEN ISSUES.
THE INCIDENT DOMINATED THE
HEADLINES AND TOUCHED A NERVE
ACROSS THIS VAST COUNTRY.
>> WE SAW SO MUCH
>> WE SAW SO MUCH OF BRUTALITY,
SIX MEN BRUTALIZING THIS GIRL
BEYOND ANYBODY'S IMAGINATION--
AND HERE IS THIS SYSTEM, WHICH
DID NOT RESPOND.
>> Sreenivasan: NATIONAL CRIME
RECORDS SHOW A WOMAN IN INDIA IS
RAPED EVERY 20 MINUTES.
KUMARI SAYS PERHAPS ONE IN TEN
CASES OF RAPE IS ACTUALLY
REPORTED, WITH MINIMAL
CONSEQUENCE.
>> LOOK, THERE ARE 95,000 CASES
OF RAPE PENDING AT DIFFERENT
LEVELS OF THE COURT SYSTEM.
WE KNOW THAT SEVEN TO NINE YEARS
IT TAKES TO GET A CONVICTION.
THREE OUT OF FOUR PERPETRATORS
JUST GO SCOT-FREE.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CRIMINAL
JUSTICE SYSTEM IS BEHOLDEN TO
CORRUPT POLITICAL LEADERS, SAYS
KIRAN BEDI.
SHE WAS ONE OF THE COUNTRY'S TOP
POLICE OFFICIALS BEFORE RETIRING
THREE YEARS AGO.
>> IF YOU ARE A NOBODY, THEN THE
LAW IS HEAVY ON YOU.
BUT IF YOU'RE SOMEBODY, THEN THE
LAW IS VERY ALERT, VERY
SELECTIVE ON YOU.
>> Sreenivasan: NOT ONLY ARE
POLITICIANS INDIFFERENT TOWARD
VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN, SHE
SAYS, BUT DOZENS OF THEMSELVES
ACCUSED OF CRIMES AND YET
UNPUNISHED.
>> YET THEY GO ON AS BEING
MEMBERS OF THE SITTING MEMBERS
OF THE LEGISLATIVE ASSEMBLIES
AND THE PARLIAMENT.
THEY'RE SITTING MEMBERS.
IT'S A CLEAR VIOLATION OF THEIR
OATH.
>> Sreenivasan: AND SOME OF THEM
ARE ACTUALLY ACCUSED AND CHARGED
WITH SEXUAL CRIMES AGAINST
WOMEN?
>> AS I SAID, YES, OF COURSE!
>> Sreenivasan: UMA VANGAL SAYS
A CULTURE OF INDIFFERENCE OR
EVEN ACCEPTANCE OF VIOLENCE
AGAINST WOMEN IS REINFORCED IN
INDIA'S INFLUENTIAL CINEMA.
VANGAL IS A PROFESSOR OF FILM IN
THE SOUTHERN CITY OF CHENNAI.
SHE SHOWED ME ONE SCENE FROM A
MOVIE IN THE REGIONAL TAMIL
LANGUAGE.
IT WAS AN ELABORATELY
CHOREOGRAPHED RAPE.
>> SHE'S PLEADING, SAYS, "OKAY,
I SAID SOMETHING, I HUMILIATED
YOU IN PUBLIC, BUT CAN WE FORGET
ABOUT IT?"
>> Sreenivasan: THE FILM'S
HERO-- AS MALE LEADS ARE
CALLED-- HAS BEEN SPURNED BY HIS
PROSPECTIVE BRIDE.
THE MARRIAGE HAD BEEN ARRANGED
BY THEIR FAMILIES, ACCORDING TO
THE LOCAL TRADITION.
>> LOOK AT THIS.
LOOK AT THE INSENSITIVE WAY IT'S
BEEN HANDLED.
YOU DON'T KNOW WHETHER TO LAUGH
OR WHETHER TAKE IT SERIOUSLY.
BUT THE AUDIENCE OBVIOUSLY
ACCEPTED THE ARGUMENT THAT IT'S
ALL RIGHT TO RAPE A WOMAN IF YOU
WANT TO PROVE YOUR MASCULINITY.
>> Sreenivasan: IN FACT, THIS
FILM WAS SUCH A HIT, SHE SAYS IT
IS NOW BEING REMADE IN
BOLLYWOOD, WHE HIOSNDI-SPEAKING
AUDIENCE IS MANY TIMES LARGER.
RAPE SCENES MAY BE THE EXTREME.
BUT THE TYPICAL BOX OFFICE-
TESTED PLOT OFTEN REINFORCES
MALE BEHAVIOR THAT IS
COMMONPLACE ON THE STREET.
>> CATCALLS, COMMENTS, SOMETIMES
RUDE GESTURES, SOMETIMES
ACTUALLY FEELING UP, EVERYTHING.
AND ANY WOMAN WHO VENTURES OUT
IS SUBJECT TO SOME KIND OF
HARASSMENT, BUT THEY DON'T
PERCEIVE IT AS HARASSMENT.
THE MEN DON'T SEE IT AS
HARASSMENT.
THEY SEE IT AS HARMLESS FUN.
Reporter: EITHER THAT OR
INVARIABLY THERE'S A HERO IN THE
WINGS TO DO RIGHT BY THE WRONG
WOMAN.
>> THE MAIN HERO IN CINEMA, IT'S
ALL ABOUT THAT.
>> Sreenivasan: AT LEAST ONE
GROUP IS TRYING TO USE  POWTOER
OF THE MEDIA TO SHIFT ATTITUDES
ABOUT VIOLENCE AGAINST WOMEN.
IT'S USED BROADCAST SPOTS LIKE
THIS ONE SINCE 2008.
>> WHEN YOU HEAR "DOMESTIC
ABUSE," IT SUGGESTS "RING THE
BELL."
>> IT WAS A CONCEPT TO REALLY,
IF METAPHORICALLY LOOKED AT,
THAT "LET'S RING THE BELL AND
BREAK THE SILENCE."
BUT VERY INTERESTINGLY, PEOPLE
TOOK IT LITERALLY.
>> Sreenivasan: THE CAMPAIGN HAS
BEEN TAKEN BEYOND INDIA TO
PAKISTAN, CHINA, EVEN A CABLE
SYSTEM IN ATLANTA, GEORGIA.
THIS IS A SIMPLE STEP BUT A VERY
EFFECTIVE ONE.
>> Sreenivasan: RECENTLY IT
LAUNCHED A GLOBAL ANTI-VIOLENCE
CAMPAIGN.
U.N. GENERAL SECRETARY BAN KI
MOON WAS AMONG THOSE HELPING
OUT.
THE GROUP ALSO STUDIED THE
IMPACT OF ITS WORK IN TWO LOCAL
AREAS IN INDIA.
>> THEY DID NOT FEEL CONFIDENT
TO GO OUT OF THE HOUSEHOLD, TO
COMPLAIN TO EITHER AN N.G.O. OR
TO SOME LEGAL OFFICER, SEEK
COUNSELING.
BUT, POST THE CAMPAIGN, THERE
WAS A LOT OF DIFFERENCE IN TERMS
OF WOMEN ACTUALLY EXHIBITING
CONFIDENCE IN GOING OUT, MEN AND
COMMUNITIES RECOGNIZING THAT IT
IS FINE FOR WOMEN TO GO OUT AND
COMPLAIN, AND THEY DON'T NEED TO
RESOLVE IT ONLY IN THE MARITAL
OR, YOU KNOW, THE NATAL FAMILY
SPACE.
>> Sreenivasan: BUT THERE ARE
FEW PLACES WOMEN CAN GO TO
ASSERT THEIR RIGHTS.
THE CENTER FOR SOCIAL RESEARCH
OFFERS CRISIS COUNSELING AND
INTERVENTION FOR VICTIMS OF
VIOLENCE IN FOUR LOCATIONS IN
THE CAPITAL.
SANGITA, A 32-YEAR-OLD MOTHER OF
REETH BOYS, PRESENTS A CLASSIC
CASE.
>> HOW ARE THINGS NOW?
DO YOU WANT TO GIVE HIM A SECOND
CHANCE?
>> Sreenivasan: SANGITA WAS
MARRIED WHEN SHE WAS 15, AND HER
FAMILY GAVE A LARGE DOWRY TO HER
IN-LAWS, EVEN THOUGH BOTH DOWRY
AND MARRIAGE BEFORE AGE 18 ARE
ILLEGAL.
HER HUSBAND'S ESCALATING ABUSE
LANDED HER IN A HOSPITAL.
THAT'S WHERE SHE LEARNED SHE
COULD GET HELP AT THE CENTER.
>> WHEN I LOOK AT THE KIDS, I
REALLY WANT TO MAKE THINGS WORK.
>> I'VE BEEN MARRIED FOR 18
YEARS AND MY CHILDREN ARE 15, 13
AND 11.
I JUST WANT A FUTURE IN WHICH MY
CHILDREN ARE WELL PROVIDED FOR
AND GROW UP IN A GOOD FAMILY.
>> Sreenivasan: THIS CENTER HAS
HELPED HER GET A PROTECTIVE
COURT ORDER AT HTHAS STOPPED THE
ABUSE, SHE SAYS.
IT'S A LIMITED SERVICE AVAILABLE
TO A TINY NUMBER  WOMOFEN.
BUT THERE'S HOPE THAT SUSTAINED
COVERAGE OF VIOLENCE AGAINST
WOMEN FOLLOWING THE DECEMBER
RAPE, THE PUBLIC OUTRAGE, WHICH
SAW MORE YOUNG MEN IN THE
STREETS MAY JUST SIGNAL A NEW
SENSITIVITY AND ACCOUNTABILITY.
>> Reporter: STIFFENED THE
PENALTIES FOR SEXUAL ASSAULT.
ONE UNIVERSITY EVEN ANNOUNCED A
QUOTA OF ADMISSION SLOTS FOR
VICTIMS OF SEXUAL HARASSMENT AND
HUMAN TRAFFICKING.
>> ACTUALLY IT'S REALLY SAD THAT
WE NEEDED A MOMENT LIKE THIS TO
SHAKE THINGS UP BECAUSE WE'VE
BEEN TALKING ABOUT MIND SET
CHANGE, GETTING MEN ENGAGED
TALKING ABOUT ALL THIS FOR A
WHILE NOW.
AND THEN THIS TRAGEDY JUST SORT
OF SHOOK EVERYONE OUT OF THEIR
COMPLACENCY AND THEN GOT
EVERYONE INTO THE ARENA, AS IT
WERE.
BUT IT'S VERY EASY TO SLIP BACK.
WE AS WOMEN'S GROUPS ARE ALSO
VERY ACTIVE AND PUSHING, SO WE
REALLY WANT TO MAKE SURE AS
BREAKTHROUGH, THAT THE
CONVERSATION DOESN'T DROP.
>> Sreenivasan: THAT'S NOT
LIKELY TO HAPPEN FOR THE NEXT
FEW MONTHS, ANYWAY, AS THE TRIAL
OF FIVE MEN CHARGED IN
DECEMBER'S GANG RAPE IN DELHI
GETS UNDER WAY.
>> Woodruff: FRED'S REPORTING IS
A PARTNERSHIP WITH THE UNDER-
TOLD STORIES PRECT OJAT ST.
MARYS UNIVERSITY IN MINNESOTA.
>> Warner: NOW, THE DEBATE OVER
VOUCHERS AND SCHOOL CHOICE IS
HEATING UP ANEW IN SOME STATES.
THE LATEST: LAST WEEK THE
INDIANA SUPREME COURT UPHELD A
2011 STATE LAW ALLOWING TAX
FUNDS TO BE USED FOR PRIVATE
SCHOOLS THROUGH TUITION
VOUCHERS.
WE TURN AGAIN TO HARI FOR THAT
STORY.
>> Sreenivasan: AHEAD OF LAST
WEEK, THE REPUBLICAN GOVERNOR
RALLIED STUDENTS AND PARENTS AT
THE STATE LEGISLATURE IN
INDIANAPOLIS IN SUPPORT OF THE
VOUCHER PROGRAM.
IN 2011 EDUCATION CORRESPONDENT
VISITED INDIANA SOON AFTER THE
LAW PASSED AND FOUND PASSIONS
STILL STRONG ON BOTH SIDES.
THEN STATE SUPERINTENDENT TONY
BENNETT WAS THE DRIVING FORCE
BEHIND THE REPUBLICAN-LED CHOICE
MOVEMENT.
>> WHAT THIS HAS DONE, IT HAS
ALLOWED AND THE STATISTICS ARE
BEARING IT, IT IS ALLOWING
FAMILIES THE OPPORTUNITY TO
PURSUE PROSPERITY FOR THEIR
CHILDREN.
>> Sreenivasan: DEMOCRATIC STATE
REPRESENTATIVE ED DELANEY SAID
HE PREFERRED HIGH-QUALITY PUBLIC
SCHOOLS OVER CHOICE.
>> THIS IS NOT A SCIENTIFIC
EXPERIMENT.
IT'S AN ATTEMPT IN MY VIEW TO
JUST PUSH DOWN PUBLIC EDUCATION.
>> Sreenivasan: INDIANA IS ONE
OF MORE THAN 15 STATES THAT
ALLOWS PUBLIC FUNDS TO BE USED
FOR PRIVATE EDUCATION.
THERE ARE SEVERAL TYPES OF
CHOICE PROGRA INCMSLUDING
VOUCHERS, SCHOLARSHIP TAX
CREDITS, AND IN ARIZONA WHERE
THE STATE PROVIDES EDUCATION
SAVINGS ACCOUNTS ALLOWING PUBLIC
MONEY TO BE USED FOR TUITION,
SUPPLIES AND BOOKS.
WHILE MOST PROGRAMS TARGET THE
POOR AND THOSE WHO LIVE IN
DISTRICTS WITH FAILING SCHOOLS,
INDIANA'S IS FAR MORE SPANSIVE,
OPENED TO HOUSEHOLDS WITH
INCOMES OF UP TO $64,000 A YEAR
FOR A FAMILY OF FOUR.
IN 2002, THE U.S. SUPREME COURT
RULED THAT PROVIDING SCHOOL
VOUCHERS, WHICH CAN BE USED AT
RELIGIOUS SCHOOLS, DOES NOT
VIOLATE THE SEPARATION OF CHURCH
AND STATE.
LEAVING INDIVIDUAL STATES TO
DECIDE.
SOME STATE COURTS HAVE
OVERTURNED SCHOOL CHOICE
PROGRAMS LIKE VOUCHERS WHILE
OTHERS, SUCH AS INDIANA'S HAVE
UPHELD THEM.
NEXT YEAR IN INDIANA, MORE THAN
HALF OF THE STUDENTS WILL BE
ELIGIBLE FOR VOUCHERS WORTH UP
TO $4500 PER CHILD.
FO
FOR MORE ON THE FALLOUT FROM THE
INDIANA CASE AND THE BROADER
NATIONAL OUTLOOK, WE TURN TO TWO
LEADING VOICES ON OPPOSING
SIDES.
KEVIN CHAVOUS IS EXECUTIVE
COUNSEL FOR AND A FOUNDING
MEMBER OF AMERICAN FEDERATION
FOR CHILDREN, A GROUP PROMOTING
VOUCHERS AND SCHOOL CHOICE.
AND DENNIS VAN ROEKEL IS THE
PRESIDENT OF THE NATIONAL
EDUCATION ASSOCIATION, THE
LARGEST LABOR UNION.
IT REPRESENTS MORE THAN THREE
MILLION PUBLIC SCHOOL EMPLOYEES,
MOST OF THEM TEACHERS.
THANKS FOR JOINING US.
KEVIN, I WANT TO START WITH YOU.
HOW CONCERNED ARE YOU ABOUT THIS
INDIANA CASE?
WHAT ARE THE BROADER
IMPLICATIONS?
>> WELL, THE BROADER
IMPLICATIONS ARE CLEAR.
PEOPLE REALLY WANT CHANGE.
YOU REALLY NEED TO GO BACK TO A
NATION AT RISK.
THIS IS THE 30th ANNIVERSARY
OF THAT LANDMARK FEDERAL REPORT
IN WHICH IT SAID THAT THEY WERE
RUNNING A MAJOR RISK IN TERMS OF
NOT BEING ABLE TO EDUCATE ALL OF
OUR CHILDREN.
THE EDUCATIONAL OUTCOMES IF A
UNILATERAL FORCE HAD DONE THIS
OUTSIDE OF THIS COUNTRY, IT
WOULD BE DECLARED AN ACT OF WAR.
THINGS HAVE GOTTEN WORSE.
THE BOTTOM LINE IS PEOPLE AND
PARENTS ARE CLAMORING FOR
CHANGE.
THAT'S WHY YOU SEE THAT THESE
SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAMS, THESE
VOUCHER PROGRAMS, TAX CREDITS,
THEY'RE EMERGING ALL OVER THE
COUNTRY BECAUSE PEOPLE DON'T
WANT TO BE CONFINED TO A BAD
SCHOOL BASED ON ZIP CODE.
THIS REALLY ISN'T ABOUT PARTISAN
POLITICS.
IT REALLY IS ABOUT MAKING SURE
THAT PARENTS HAVE AS MANY
QUALITY OPTIONS AS POSSIBLE
AVAILABLE TO EDUCATE THEIR
CHILDREN.
>> Sreenivasan: DO YOU THINK
THIS IS POSSIBLY A TIPPING
POINT, THAT WILL REFOCUS OR
REFRAME THE CONVERSATION?
>> THE LEGAL IMPLICATIONS FOR
INDIANA DON'T GO BEYOND THE
BORDERS BECAUSE IT SIMPLY
APPLIES IN INDIANA.
I DO THINK IT WILL INCREASE THE
CONVERSATION, AND I DON'T THINK
THAT'S BAD.
I THINK IT'S IMPORTANT THAT WE
TALK ABOUT THE STUDENTS IN
AMERICA THAT ARE NOT GETTING THE
EDUCATION THEY SO RICHLY
DESERVE.
BUT I THINK WHAT WE HAVE TO DO
IS TO STAY FOCUSED.
WE NEED TO STAY FOCUSED ON THE
RIGHT OF EVERY CHILD TO HAVE A
GOOD PUBLIC EDUCATION.
AND FOR THOSE WHO OPPOSE
VOUCHERS, WHAT WE BELIEVE IS
THAT YOU DO NOT USE... PAY
DO WHAT WE KNOWTUITION ATTACKS
WORKS.
TAKE SCHOOLS AND INVEST IN EARLY
CHILDHOOD.
INCREASE PARENTAL INVOLVEMENT.
SMALL CLASS SIZE ESPECIALLY IN
HIGH-POVERTY SCHOOLS AT THE
LOWER GRADES.
MAKE SURE THAT WE HAVE A WELL
TRAINED, QUALIFIED AND CERTIFIED
WORK FORCE THAT IS STABLE.
WHEN WE DO THAT, CHILDREN
SUCCEED.
WE DO NOT BELIEVE IT IS THE
SOLUTION TO TAKE THE FEW OUT AND
LEAVE THE REST BEHIND.
>> Sreenivasan: WHAT ABOUT THAT
ARGUMENT?
>> WELL, WE KNOW WHAT WORKS.
ACCOUNTABILITY WORKS.
HIGHER STANDARDS, HIGHER
EXPECTATIONS.
PART OF THE CHALLENGE IS WE HAVE
TO FIGURE OUT THE BEST WAY TO
FLY THE PLANE WHILE WE FIX IT.
FIXING IT IS IS ALL THE THINGS
THAT DENNIS TALKED ABOUT EVEN
MORE.
WE HAVE TO LOOK AT WORK RULES,
LOOK AT PAYING OUR QUALITY
TEACHERS MORE AND FIRING THE BAD
TEACHERS.
THAT'S GOING TO TAKE YEARS OF
WORK.
IN THE MEANTIME, HALF THE KIDS
OF COLOR ARE DROPPING OUT OF
AMERICAN SCHOOLS.
OUR GOOD SCHOOLS AREN'T AS GOOD
AS THEY USED TO BE.
AND EVEN BEFORE I FINISH THIS
SENTENCE, HARI, A CHILD IS GOING
TO DROP OUT.
WHAT DO WE DO TO HELP THOSE KIDS
THAT WE KNOW ARE CONFINED TO BAD
SCHOOLS?
AND THE D.C. SCHOLARSHIP PROGRAM
WE KNOW THAT 94% OF THOSE KIDS
WHO ARE GETTING THOSE VOUCHERS
ARE GRADUATING.
89% ARE GOING TO COLLEGE.
AND 100% OF THOSE KIDS WHO COME
FROM FAMILIES WITH A COMBINED
FAMILY INCOME OF $24,000 CAME
FROM SCHOOLS THAT WERE FAILING.
SO AT THE END OF THE DAY, WE'VE
GOT TO FLY THIS PLANE WHILE WE
FIX IT.
AND TO DO THE ACCOUNTABILITY
STUFF AND THE LONG-RANGE STUFF.
SOME OF THE THINGS THAT DENNIS
TALKED ABOUT.
IT MAY TAKE ANOTHER 30 YEARS.
WE CAN'T AFFORD AS A NATION TO
LET THE SAMENESS OF WHAT WE'VE
BEEN DOING CONTINUE TO CRIPPLE
OUR CHILDREN AND OUR FUTURE.
>> Sreenivasan: DENNIS.
I BELIEVE YCA N GO TO ANY
STATE IN THIS COUNTRY AND FIND
INCREDIBLE EXAMPLES OF MAKING A
DIFFERENCE.
MEMBERS OF MY ORGANIZATION GO TO
A SCHOOL EACH AND EVERYDAY
GIVING EVERYTHING THEY HAVE TO
HELP CHILDREN SUCCEED.
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS PROVIDE
THEM WITH SERVICES AND THE
PROGRAMS THEY NEED TO ASSIST
CHILDREN.
>> Sreenivasan: YOU THINK
VOUCHERS WOULD NOT MAKE THAT
HAPPEN?
>> I BELIEVE IT'S A
SHORT-SIGHTED SOLUTION.
CHANGING THE AMERICAN FOCUS THAT
WE OUGHT TO PROVIDE IT FOR SOME
AND NOT FOR ALL.
IT'S SUCH AN INEQUITIABLE SYSTEM
IN AMERICA.
YOU CAN GO INTO SOME SCHOOLS
THAT HAVE ELABORATE SCIENCE
LABORATORIES, ALL KINDS OF
TECHNOLOGY, WELL QUALIFIED AND
WELL TRAINED FACULTY.
YOU CAN GO INTO OTHERS THAT LOOK
LIKE THEY'RE ABANDONED
FACTORIES.
THAT'S WRONG.
AND THE RICHEST, MOST POWERFUL
NATION IN THE WORD, THE FACT
THAT IT'S JUST WRONG THAT WE
DON'T PROVIDE THAT FOR EVERY
CHILD REGARDLESS OF YOUR ZIP
CODE.
I DON'T THINK WE SHOULD ACCEPT
NOR TOLERATE A SYSTEM THAT ONLY
PROVIDES A GOOD EDUCATION FOR
SOME.
AND THE ANSWER IS TO INVEST IN
THOSE SCHOOLS NOW.
THEY DO WANT TO CHANGE.
PARENTS WANT THEIR KIDS TO GO TO
A NEIGHBORHOOD SCHOOL THAT MEETS
THEIR NEEDS, THAT HAS THE
RESOURCES AND THE PROGRAMS THEY
NEED TO SUCCEED.
THAT'S WHAT THE FOCUS OF AMERICA
SHOULD BE.
NOT JUST ON SOME BUT FOR EVERY
SINGLE CHILD IN AMERICA.
>> Sreenivasan: KEVIN.
I JUST WANT TO...
Sreenivasan: HE KEEPS TALKING
ABOUT THAT SORT OF INEQUALITY.
THAT POSSIBILITY THAT IN A
VOUCHER SYSTEM YOU COULD HAVE A
LOTTERY WHERE SOME FAMILIES WILL
QUALIFY FOR A SCHOOL AND THEN
THE SCHOOL THAT THEY LIKE THEY
DIDN'T GET INTO AND THEY'RE KIND
OF STUCK BACK IN THE SCHOOL THAT
THEY WERE AT.
>> WHAT DO WE DO?
I MEAN LET'S LOOK AT IT.
IN FLORIDA WHERE WE HAVE 50,000
KIDS IN A TAX-CREDIT PROGRAM, A
STUDY DONE BY NORTHWEST
UNIVERSITY SHOWED THAT THE KIDS
WHO DID NOT GET THE VOUCHERS,
THEIR STANDARDIZED TEST SCORES
DID BETTER.
YOU KNOW WHY?
BECAUSE THE COMPETITION REALLY
DOES MATTER.
I MEAN, NO SCHOOL DISTRICT IS
THEY NEVER WILL.SELF FROM
THE BEST FORM OF CHANGE, THE
BEST WAY TO GET TO WHERE DENNIS
AND I BOTH WANT THESE KIDS AND
THESE FAMILIES TO GET TO IS
THROUGH EXTERNAL PRESSURE.
AND THE BEST FORM OF EXTERNAL
PRESSURE IS IS THROUGH
EDUCATIONAL CHOICE.
LOOK, THIS IS NOT AN EITHER/OR
ZERO SUM GAIN.
I'M NOT SAYING THAT ALL KIDS
NEED TO AVAIL THEMSELVES OR ALL
FAMILIES NEED TO AVAIL
THEMSELVES OF SCHOLARSHIPS OR
VOUCHERS.
WHAT I'M SAYING IS THROUGH TAX
CREDITS, THROUGH SCHOLARSHIPS
AND VOUCHERS, CHARTER SCHOOLS,
HOME SCHOOLS, TRADITIONAL PUBLIC
SCHOOLS WE NEED TO PUT ALL
OPTIONS ON THE TABLE.
THAT'S THE ONLY WAY WE'RE GOING
TO FLY THIS PLANE WHILE WE FIX
IT AND HELP THOSE KIDS WITH
IMMEDIATE NEEDS AND ALSO PROVIDE
THE IMPETUS FOR PUBLIC SCHOOLS
TO RIGHT THEMSELVES.
>> Sreenivasan: DENNIS, WHAT
ABOUT THE IDEA THAT WE HAVE THIS
SYSTEM WHERE G.I. BILLS, PEL
GRANTS AND FOR POSTSECONDARY
EDUCATION WE'RE TAKING TAX PAYER
MONEY AND DISTRIBUTING IT
THROUGH PEOPLE TO WHATEVER
SCHOOL THEY'RE INTERESTED IN.
WHY IS IT SO DIFFERENT FOR
PRIMARY AND HIGH SCHOOL
EDUCATION AND KINDERGARTEN.
>> POSTSECONDARY EDUCATION,
COLLEGE AND UNIVERSITY I THINK
YOU HAVE TO PUT THAT INTO A
DIFFERENT CATEGORY THAN K-12
EDUCATION.
BECAUSE THEN YOU'RE CHOOSING
BETWEEN A CAREER OR COLLEGE AND
SPECIALIZED TRAINING.
THAT DEFINITELY MAKES SENSE.
BUT FOR YOUNG CHILDREN, THEY
SHOULDN'T HAVE TO BE BUSSED
SOMEWHERE.
IT SHOULD BE IN THEIR
NEIGHBORHOOD.
WE DO KNOW WHAT NEEDS TO BE DONE
IN THESE SCHOOLS.
AND TOO MANY OF THESE SCHOOLS,
ESPECIALLY IN COMMUNITIES OF
HIGH POVERTY, THEY HAVE A
TRANSIENT WORK FORCE.
THEY DON'T HAVE TEACHERS
TEACHING IN A CERTIFIED AREA.
THEY'RE TEACHING OUT OF THEIR
AREA OF EXPERTISE.
I WAS A HIGH SCHOOL MATH TEACHER
FOR 23 YEARS.
I HOPE I WAS A GOOD MATH TEACHER
ALL THOSE YEARS.
BUT IF YOU WERE TO PUT ME IN THE
MUSIC CLASS, I WOULD NOT HAVE
BEEN AN EFFECTIVE TEACHER.
IN TOO MANY OF SCHOOLS OF
POVERTY THEY'RE DOING THAT.
IT'S WRONG.
WHAT WE NEED TO DO IS TO MAKE
SURE THAT WE HAVE A WELL
TRAINED, CERTIFIED WORK FORCE
THAT IS STABLE, PROVIDE THE
SERVICES AND PROGRAMS AND
ESPECIALLY THE WRAP-AROUND
SERVICES SO THAT WE REMOVE
OBSTACLES FROM STUDENTS THAT
DON'T ENABLE THEM TO LEARN.
>> Sreenivasan: MY MATH SAYS MY
TIME IS UP.
THANKS SO MUCH FOR JOINING US.
>> THANK YOU VERY MUCH.
.
Woodruff: AS THE SUPREME
COURT TOOK ARGUMENTS LAST WEEK
IN TWO HIGH-PROFILE CASES
LOOKING AT SAME SEX MARRIAGE,
MANY USERS OF FACEBOOK, TWITTER
AND OTHER FORMS OF SOCIAL MEDIA
TOOK TO CHANGING THEIR PROFILE
PICTURES.
WHAT WAS BEHIND THAT VIRAL
ON-LINE CAMPAIGN?
WE ASKED TWO JOURNALISTS FROM
THE WEBSITE DAILY DOWNLOAD.
LAWRENCE ASHBURN IS THE SITE'S
EDITOR IN CHIEF.
HOWARD KURTZ IS "NEWSWEEK"'S
WASHINGTON BUREAU CHIEF AND HOST
OF CNN'S RELIABLE SOURCES.
WELCOME BACK TO YOU BOTH.
>> THANKS.
Woodruff: HOWARD, WHAT WAS
BEHIND THIS?
HOW DID ALL THIS GET STARTED?
>> A HUMAN RIGHTS CAMPAIGN WHICH
LOBBIES FOR SAME SEX MARRIAGE
PUT OUT THIS LOGO AND FACEBOOK
ITSF SELAYS THAT 2.7 MILLION
MORE PEOPLE CHANGED THEIR
PROFILE PICTURE TO ADOPT SOME
FORM OF THIS LOGO.
PEOPLE ARE PRETTY CREATIVE.
THAN USUAL.
THIS AMOUNTED TO 120% INCREASE.
YOU WON'T BE SURPRISED TO KNOW
THAT THE MOST ACTIVE PEOPLE WERE
AROUND 30 YEARS OLD.
>> WHAT'S INTERESTING ALSO ABOUT
THIS, JUDY, IS THAT THIS LOGO,
THE PERSON WHO CREATED THIS LOGO
SAID IT EXCEEDED HER WILDEST
EXPECTATIONS.
OF BEING SHARED ACROSS THE WEB.
>> Woodruff: THIS STARTED As
THE SUPREME COURT WAS HAVING
THESE ARGUMENTS LAST TUESDAY AND
WEDNESDAY.
WHO WAS DOING THIS?
>> MOST OF IT, YOU KNOW, IT
WAS... MOST OF IT WAS THE
YOUNGER GENERATION,
30-YEAR-OLDS.
YOU KNOW, 80% OF 30-YEAR-OLDS
ARE ON FACEBOOK.
BUT IN ADDITION TO THAT, THERE
WAS A REALLY HIGH-PROFILE PEOPLE
WHO DID IT INCLUDING MARTHA
STEWART.
MARTHA STEWART, THERE WAS ONE...
>> HERE WE GO.
IT IS A RED VELVET CAKE.
YOU CAN SEE THAT THE ICING ON
THAT IS THE EQUAL SIGNS.
THERE WAS ALSO GEORGE TIKEI OF
STAR TREK FAME WROTE FOR THOSE
OPPOSED TO MARRIAGE EQUALITY.
INSTEAD OF THE TWO LINES HE MADE
IT INTO A DIVISION SYMBOL.
>> OTHER CORPORATIONS ARE
GETTING INVOLVED AS WELL.
THE NEXT ONE WAS BUD LIGHT AND
GOING TO THE CREATIVE AS SPEC.
WE SEE TWO BEER CANS.
YOU LIKE THE NEXT ONE.
>> MY FAVORITE OF THE TWO IS
THIS.
IT'S SUCH A CUTE PICTURE.
JUST GONE BY AN AVERAGE PERSON.
AND THEN BEYONCE WEIGHED IN.
SHE HAS A LOT OF HEFT IN SOCIAL
MEDIA.
SHE HAS 44 MILLION FOLLOWERS.
INSTEAD OF CHANGING OR MAKING A
SYMBOL SHE WROTE IF YOU LIKE IT,
YOU SHOULD BE ABLE TO PUT A RING
ON IT.
THAT IS, OF COURSE, A... A
PLAYOFF HER POPULAR SONG.
>> Woodruff: HOWARD, HOW OFTEN
DOES SOMETHING LIKE THIS HAPPEN
WHERE AN ORGANIZATION,
ADVOCACY ORGANIZATION GETS
SOMETHING GOING AND IT WAS AN
ISSUE GETTING A LOT OF NEWS
COVERAGE LAST WEEK.
HOW UNUSUAL WAS IT THAT IT JUST
TOOK OFF LIKE THIS?
>> THE WAY IT SPREAD LIKE WILD
FIRE IS PRETTY UNUSUAL BUT IN
THIS AGE OF SOCIAL MEDIA,
EVERYONE IS TRYING TO DO SOME
VERSION OF THIS.
I THINK WHAT'S INTERESTING IS
RATHER THAN CREATE A PAGE AND
YOU GET A CERTAIN NUMBER OF
LIKES THE FACT THAT PEOPLE COULD
ADOPT THIS AND PUT THEIR OWN
TWIST ON IT, MAKE IT A LITTLE
FUNNY IS WHAT CONTRIBUTED TO ITS
POPULARITY.
>> IN PREVIOUS TIMES, YOU HAVE
BREAST CANCER AND PEOPLE TURN
THINGS PINK, RIGHT?
YOU HAD ARAB SPRING AND
EVERYBODY WOULD TURN THEIR
PROFILE PICTURE... THERE WAS A
PIECE THAT YOU COULD PUT OVER IT
THAT WAS GREEN.
SO EVERYBODY WHO WAS SUPPORTING
WHAT WAS HAPPENING THERE WOULD
TUSH THEIR FACEBOOK PROFILE
GREEN.
>> THERE WAS SUCH A TIDE OF THIS
THAT SOME PEOPLE STARTED TO FIND
IT ANNOYING OR FEEL LIKE IT WAS
TRIVIALIZING THE ISSUE.
AS A GALVANIZING TOOL IT'S HARD
TO MATCH THESE KINDS OF RESULTS.
>> Woodruff: TRIVIALIZING
BECAUSE SOME OF THEM WERE SILLY
OR MADE YOU TAKE IT NOT AS
SERIOUSLY?
>> YES.
I THINK THERE ARE PEOPLE WHO
SAID THAT WE'RE REPORTING ON WHO
SAID, WHY WOULD YOU PUT THAT
THERE LYING UPSIDEDOWN AS
SOMETHING TO TALK ABOUT GAY
MARRIAGE RIGHTS?
AND SO THERE WERE PEOPLE WHO
THOUGHT IT DID.
IT MAN MALLIZED THIS VERY
IMPORTANT ISSUE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT DOES SOMETHING
LIKE THIS ACCOMPLISH?
WHEN THAT MANY PEOPLE ARE SAYING
THEY AGREE, YES, IT'S KIND OF A
REFERENDUM ON WHAT SOME IN THE
PUBLIC ARE THINKING, HOWARD.
WHAT DOES IT DO FOR THE
MOVEMENT?
I MEAN, DO WE KNOW?
>> SINCE THE ISSUE THAT
GALVANIZED THIS IS THE SUPREME
COURT TAKING THIS PAIR OF CASES,
I DON'T KNOW THAT IT'S GOING TO
CHANGE ANY FIVE JUSTICES'
OPINIONS.
>> ALTHOUGH THERE WAS A VERY
FUNNY CARTOON THAT SAID, JUSTICE
KENNEDY SAYING, CAN WE RULE YET?
WELL, HAVE WE CHECKED IN THWI
FACEBOOK?
WE HAVE TO CHECK IN AND SEE
WHO...
>> AND IT DOES HAVE THE
POTENTIAL, I THINK, TO TURN OFF
OR ALIATEEN PEOPLE WHO ARE ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS ISSUE WHO
DON'T SUPPORT SAME SEX MARRIAGE
EVEN THOUGH THE POLLS SHOW 58%
SUPPORTING SAME SEX MARRIAGE.
A LOT OF PEOPLE ARE OPPOSED TO
IT.
IT RAISES THE VISIBILITY I THINK
IN A WAY THAT WE HAVEN'T SEEN
AND PROBABLY ENERGIZES THOSE WHO
FEEL LIKE THIS IS THE MOMENT
THAT GAY MARRIAGE IS FINALLY
GETTING CULTURAL ACCEPTANCE.
>> Woodruff: WHAT ABOUT THOSE ON
THE OTHER SIDE OF THIS ISSUE WHO
ARE NOT... WHO DON'T THINK THAT
SAME SEX MARRIAGE SHOULD BE
LEGALIZED?
>> WE DID SOME RESEARCH INTO
THAT.
THE COMPARISONS ARE VAST.
THE AMOUNT OF MOMENTUM THAT GAY
RIGHTS ADVOCATES HAVE ON SOCIAL
MEDIA IS TEN TIMES THAT OF
ANTIGAY.
THERE WAS ONE PAGE THAT REALLY
WE FOUND ON FACEBOOK WAS A
MILLION STAND FOR...
>> TRADITIONAL MARRIAGE.
... ANTIGAY MARRIAGE.
IT HAD ONLY 3,000 LIKES.
>> Woodruff: THAT'S REFLECTIVE
OF THE AGE OF THOSE USING IT.
>> RIGHT.
80% OF 30-YEAR-OLDS ARE ON
SOCIAL MEDIA.
THAT'S A VERY LOGICAL
CONCLUSION.
>> IT COULD ALSO REFLECT THE
FACT THAT EVEN REPUBLICANS WHO
HAVE BEEN OPPOSED TO SAME SEX
MARRIAGE HAVE BEEN PULLING BACK
OR MUTING THEIR OPPOSITION AS IT
SURGES IN POPULARITY WHICH IS IN
PART BECAUSE MANY YOUNGER PEOPLE
GREW UP THINKING THERE'S NO
PROBLEM WITH THIS.
>> Woodruff: AS FACEBOOK IS
BEING USED MOREND A MORE AS A
POLITICAL TOOL WE FIND THE
FOUNDER OF FACEBOOK, MARK
ZUCKERBERG HAS ANNOUNCED HE'S
GOING TO HIMSELF GET MORE
INVOLVED IN POLITICAL ISSUES.
I HEARD HIS NAME CONNECTED WITH
IMMIGRATION.
>> AND EDUCATION.
HE'S FORMING A NEW POLITICAL
GROUP.
HE HAS ALREADY HIRED LOBBYISTS,
BOTH REPUBLICAN AND DEMOCRAT
LEANING LOBBYISTS.
AND HE IS INTERESTED IN CAUSES
THAT BENEFIT HIM.
HE WOULD LIKE MORE VISAS FOR
SKILLED WORKERS.
HE HAS AN INCENTIVE TO GET
INVOLVED IN ISSUES LIKE THIS.
>> ZUCKERBERG WHO IS A WEALTHY
GUY IS ENTITLED TO USE HIS MONEY
ANYWAY HE WANTS, BUT I DO THINK
THERE'S A DANGER HERE.
HE BECOMES ASSOCIATED WITH ONE
SIDE OF THE DIVISIVE POLITICAL
ISSUES.
PEOPLE WHO WANT TO USE FACEBOOK
TO CHECK IN WITH THEIR FRIENDS
AND POST PICTURES OF THEIR
CHILDREN MIGHT BE TURNED OFF IF
IT SEEMS EXCESSIVELY POLITICAL.
>> I DON'T KNOW.
CEO OF STAR BUCKS HOWARD SHULTZ
CAME AFTER AN INVESTOR DURING A
MEETING.
THE INVESTOR DIDN'T LIKE THE
FACT THAT HE HAD SUPPORTED GAY
RIGHTS, AND HE SAID TO THE
INVESTOR, I DON'T CARE.
AND I THINK PEOPLE ARE STILL
GOING TO STARBUCKS.
>> Woodruff: IT'S AN INTERESTING
QUESTION THOUGH BECAUSE SO MANY
PEOPLE ARE USING FACEBOOK.
ZUCKERBERG IS CLEARLY ASSOCIATED
WITH AN ISSUE ON ONE SIDE OR THE
OTHER.
IT WILL BE INTERESTING TO SEE
WHAT THE REACTION IS.
HOWARD KURTZ, LAUREN ASHBURN,
THANK YOU BOTH.
>> THANK YOU.
>> Woodruff: YOU CAN WEIGH IN
ONLINE: DO YOU THINK THESE TYPES
OF SOCIAL MEDIA CAMPAIGNS CAN
INFLUENCE CHANGE?
GO TO OUR WEB SITE TO BE PART OF
THAT CONVERSATION.
>> Warner: FINALLY TONIGHT, A
PORTRAIT OF A SINGLE MOTHER
RECOVERING FROM ALCOHOLISM AND
SEXUAL ABUSE, AND PUTTING HER
FAMILY BACK TOGETHER.
THAT'S THE SUBJECT OF A TWO-
NIGHT DOCUMENTARY, "KIND-HEARTED
WOMAN," PRODUCED BY "FRONTLINE"
AND INDEPENDENT LENS.
IT CHRONICLES THE LIFE OF ROBIN
"POOR BEAR," AN OGALALA SIOUX
FROM NORTH DAKOTA'S SPIRIT LAKE
RESERVATION, AND HER EFFORTS TO
REGAIN CUSTODY OF HER TWO
CHILDREN.
IN THIS EXCERPT, SHE IS
DISCUSSING THAT EFFORT WITH HER
TEENAGE DAUGHTER, DARIAN.
MOM.
YES.
WHAT ARE YOU DOING?
I'M STUDYING.
I HAVE A TEST COMING UP.
>> WHAT?
SOCIAL WORK.
I AM GOING TO MAKE THE SYSTEM
WORK, MAKE THE FAMILIES WORK.
TRY TO ANYWAY.
>> WHAT IF THEY DON'T WANT TO?
THEN THAT'S A CHOICE THEY
MAKE.
I'M GOING TO STUDY.
>> WELL, WHAT IF THE PARENTS
ABSOLUTELY CAN'T GET ALONG?
YOU KNOW, LIKE YOU AND DAD.
THEY CAN'T EVEN LOOK AT EACH
OTHER.
>> YOU KNOW, THERE ARE PARENTS
WHO WANT TO TRY TO GET ALONG.
THEY JUST DON'T KNOW HOW.
WHEN SOCIAL SERVICES TOOK YOU
GUYS FROM ME, I WASN'T AS STRONG
IN MY SOBRIETY AS I WAS AT THE
TIME AND AS DETERMINED AS I WAS
TO GET YOU BACK HOME HERE.
>> YEAH.
I WOULD HAVE GIVEN UP AND
STARTED DRINKING.
>> HMM.
I WOULD HAVE.
NOT ONCE DID SOCIAL SERVICES
OFFER ANYTHING, HONEY, THAT
COULD HELP US.
NOT ONCE.
NOT ONCE DID I GET A CALL, HEY,
ROBIN, WHAT CAN WE DO TO HELP
BRING YOUR KIDS HOME?
ON CHRISTMAS I WAS SHOPPING FOR
YOU NOT KNOWING WHEN YOU WERE
GOING TO GET TO SEE IT.
OR WHEN I WAS GOING TO GET TO
GIVE IT TO YOU.
NOT ONCEDID  I GET TO HOLD YOU
AND TELL YOU, DARIAN, I LOVE
YOU.
DARIAN, IT'S GOING TO BE OKAY.
I PRAYED FOR YOU EVERY SINGLE
NIGHT.
LOOK AT ME, MY GIRL.
COME HERE.
I WASN'T ABLE TO DO THIS.
BABY GIRL, IT'S OKAY TO CRY.
IT'S OKAY.
IT'S OKAY TO BE ALL SNOTTY.
(LAUGHING) IT'S OKAY, DARIAN.
>> Warner: "FRONTLINE'S" "KIND-
HEARTED WOMAN" AIRS TONIGHT AND
TOMORROW NIGHT ON MOST PBS
STATIONS.
AND YOU CAN WATCH MORE CLIPS
ONLINE.
>> Woodruff: AGAIN, THE MAJOR
DEVELOPMENTS OF THE DAY.
SOUTH KOREA'S PRIME MINISTER
VOWED THERE WOULD BE A MILITARY
RESPONSE IF NORTH KOREA PROVOKES
IT.
AND PROSECUTORS IN COLORADO ARE
SEEKING THE DEATH PENALTY FOR
THE GUNMAN IN LAST YEAR'S MOVIE
THEATER MASSACRE.
>> Warner: ONLINE, THE C.D.C.
VOICES CONCERN OVER DRUG-
RESISTANT BACTERIA.
HARI SREENIVASAN EXPLAINS.
>> Sreenivasan: A NUMBER OF
DISEASES, INCLUDING GONORRHEA
AND TUBERCULOSIS, ARE GROWING
MORE RESISTANT TO ANTIBIOTICS.
HOW WILL THIS AFFECT THE WAY WE
FIGHT INFECTION IN THE FUTURE?
READ MORE ON OUR HEALTH PAGE.
AND ON THE BUSINESS DESK, WHEN
IT MAKES SENSE TO SUSPEND YOUR
SOCIAL SECURITY BENEFITS.
ALL THAT AND MORE IS ON OUR WEB
SITE, newshour.pbs.org.
MARGARET?
>> Warner: AND THAT'S THE
NEWSHOUR FOR TONIGHT.
ON TUESDAY, WE'LL ASK FORMER
REPUBLICAN SENATOR OLYMPIA SNOWE
ABOUT GRIDLOCK IN WASHINGTON,
AND THE WAY FORWARD FOR THE
G.O.P..
I'M MARGARET WARNER.
>> Woodruff: AND I'M JUDY
WOODRUFF.
WE'LL SEE YOU ONLINE, AND AGAIN
HERE TOMORROW EVENING.
THANK YOU, AND GOOD NIGHT.